# Staying Foolish and Writing

Once a friend of mine asked me, how come I write so good?

As flattered as I can be, I don\'t consider that I am a good writer.
Maybe my writing skills could be slightly better than most people. But
for the most part, I have a long way to go to be called as a good
writer.

That said, I\'ll probably attribute it to me being okay to make a fool
out of myself.

Until I was 17, other than class notes, I hardly wrote anything.
Possibly due to Facebook, and other social networks and internet
services such as blogging platforms, I was quite tempted to write.

Moreover, I believe writing is a byproduct of extensive reading and
experience. The more I read, the more I experienced, the more I got to
know, and the more I was tempted to write. When my ideas reached a
particular threshold wherein they became abundantly clear, I leapt and
wrote to my heart\'s content.

The fact here is that not all I wrote in the past is amazing. Some of
the writings are terrible because of poor grammar, being robotic, even
crappy. Gradually, I became better. Hopefully, I can say with certainty
that I write much better than my 17-year-old self can do.

Now that begs the question: how does this relate to the fact that I was
ready to make a fool out of myself?

If I think about it, earlier when I choose to write, I was terrible at
it. Even before I could articulate my thoughts well, I was pointed out
notoriously for writing long posts. Also, this one is long, and most
people sadly don\'t have the patience to sit and read. I am no
exception, but the only difference is that I accept the fact that I do
that sometimes and I do my best to keep it to a minimum. I have seen
people who rather directly skip everything I or anyone else wrote and
merely say \"Too long, didn\'t read\".

That is infuriating on so many levels. But that is a different story for
some other time.

Demotivation because people don\'t appreciate your work, your
self-doubts, lack of guidance etc., all attribute to slowing down of
your work or even at times, can make you quit. Because let me be frank:
who likes to get hurt? Or want to be made a fool?

It is natural as a human being to shut ourselves up and close our hearts
to avoid hurt. It is, after all, a defence mechanism to keep us safe.
But, the more we shut ourselves, the more we are hurting ourselves in
that process.

When you are vulnerable, you are prone to get hurt the most. While not
every kind of hurt or disappointment is good, some types of injuries are
good. When you deal with them, they don\'t hurt you anymore, and you
grow.

For instance, I get bashed for writing notoriously long. As you might
have noticed, this post is also long. I could have stopped myself and
prefer to write something short instead, but I chose to write because I
have a lot to tell. Condensing it felt like ripping the meat and flesh
and trying to eat the bones alone. Maybe the bare-bones is sufficient
sometimes, but you need the meat and flesh to survive.

Anyway, unless you are a prodigy, you cannot skip the part of getting
hurt. You put in as much effort as you can, learn from your mistakes and
move on. Sometimes things might indicate that this is indeed not your
cup of tea. It happens at some point. Maybe if you see that happening a
lot often, then instead of putting yourself out there, you can take a
backseat and reflect upon what happened honestly and make an informed
choice to leave or to stay. If you chose to go, at the least you are
leaving after giving what you wanted an honest and sincere attempt. On
the other hand, if you decided to continue, you now have a much stronger
conviction to stay back and persist.

So, what am I trying to say in short? If you like something, give it a
shot. While you do, it is okay to make a fool out of your self. Only in
that way, you can learn and achieve what you want. If you don\'t want to
feel like a fool, then you may not proceed so far. Learn from your
mistakes and persist in what you like. Decide to quit something when you
don\'t find yourself doing it and that too only after a real honest
series of attempts.
